[DX-815] Plugins Overview Refactor (#5330)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/product-stack/tyk-gateway/advanced-configurations/plugins/bundles/bundle-cli.md

---
date: 2024-08-20T13:32:12Z
title: Bundler CLI Tool
description: "Explains usage of the bundler CLI tool"
tags: [ "Tag TODO" ]
---

The bundler tool is a CLI service, provided by *Tyk Gateway* as part of its binary since v2.8. This lets you generate [plugin bundles]({{< ref "/plugins/how-to-serve-plugins/plugin-bundles" >}}). Please note that the generated plugin bundles must be served using your own web server.

Issue the following command below to see more details on the `bundle` command:

```bash
/opt/tyk-gateway/bin/tyk bundle -h
```

### Creating a plugin bundle

> Run the following command to create the bundle:

Reviewer: Probably ought to tell people what they need to have to run the `build` command - for example, do they need to hand craft a manifest.json first? Where should the plugin files be? Where should the certificate be?

Author: Thanks @andyo-tyk I have created a [ticket](https://tyktech.atlassian.net/browse/DX-1652) to address the issue in a  separate iteration

@letzya

```bash
$ tyk bundle build
```

The resulting file will contain all your specified files and a modified `manifest.json` with the right checksum and signature (if required), in ZIP format.

{{< note success >}}
**Note**  

> By default, the bundles are signed, if no private key is specified, the program will prompt for a confirmation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Tyk will attempt to sign plugin bundles for improved security. If no private key is specified, the program will prompt for a confirmation. 
```

Use `-y` to override this (see options below).
{{< /note >}}

> Usage for creating plugin bundles is displayed by issuing the following command:

Reviewer: Do you mean "Instructions on how to create plugin bundles..."?

Author: Updated, replaced with _Instructions on how to create plugin bundles is displayed by issuing the following command:_
